README.md, before:

![](https://github.com/FAIRmat-NFDI/nomad-measurements/actions/workflows/publish.yml/badge.svg)
![](https://img.shields.io/pypi/pyversions/nomad-measurements)
![](https://img.shields.io/pypi/l/nomad-measurements)
![](https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/nomad-measurements)

# NOMAD's Measurements Plugin
This is a plugin for [NOMAD](https://nomad-lab.eu) which contains base sections for
materials science measurements.

## Getting started
`nomad-measurements` can be installed from PyPI using `pip`:
```sh
pip install nomad-measurements
```
### Setting up your OASIS
Read the [NOMAD plugin documentation](https://nomad-lab.eu/prod/v1/staging/docs/plugins/plugins.html#add-a-plugin-to-your-nomad) for all details on how to deploy the plugin on your NOMAD instance.

You need to modify the ```nomad.yaml``` configuration file of your NOMAD instance.
To include, for example, the XRD plugin you need to add the following lines: .

```yaml
plugins:
  include:
  - 'parsers/nomad_measurements/xrd'
  options:
    parsers/nomad_measurements/xrd:
      python_package: nomad_measurements.xrd
 ```

### Development
This code is currently under development and for installing and contributing you should clone the repository:
```sh
git clone git@github.com:FAIRmat-NFDI/nomad-measurements.git
cd nomad-measurements
```

And install the package in editable mode:
```sh
pip install -e .
```

Commit message:

Create dev dependencies (#55)
* Moved EntryArchive import to if clause

* Removed typechecking requirements for transmission

* Bug fix in IKZ.py

* Removed typechecking imports from __init__.py

* Moved structlog and pytest to dev dependencies

* Updated README.md with dev dependencies

README.md, after:

![](https://github.com/FAIRmat-NFDI/nomad-measurements/actions/workflows/publish.yml/badge.svg)
![](https://img.shields.io/pypi/pyversions/nomad-measurements)
![](https://img.shields.io/pypi/l/nomad-measurements)
![](https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/nomad-measurements)

# NOMAD's Measurements Plugin
This is a plugin for [NOMAD](https://nomad-lab.eu) which contains base sections for
materials science measurements.

## Getting started
`nomad-measurements` can be installed from PyPI using `pip`:
```sh
pip install nomad-measurements
```
### Setting up your OASIS
Read the [NOMAD plugin documentation](https://nomad-lab.eu/prod/v1/staging/docs/plugins/plugins.html#add-a-plugin-to-your-nomad) for all details on how to deploy the plugin on your NOMAD instance.

You need to modify the ```nomad.yaml``` configuration file of your NOMAD instance.
To include, for example, the XRD plugin you need to add the following lines: .

```yaml
plugins:
  include:
  - 'parsers/nomad_measurements/xrd'
  options:
    parsers/nomad_measurements/xrd:
      python_package: nomad_measurements.xrd
 ```

### Development
This code is currently under development and for installing and contributing you should clone the repository:
```sh
git clone git@github.com:FAIRmat-NFDI/nomad-measurements.git
cd nomad-measurements
```

And install the package in editable mode with the development ('dev') dependencies:
```sh
pip install -e .[dev]
```
